That's what if you say nice things about computers they will immediately let you down.
Yeah they will, exactly.
I really enjoy the podcast by the way. I just want to tell you that. I really don't listen to
tech podcasts but I listen to you guys and I actually fell asleep with my AirPods in
which I do all the time and I woke up at like 4 in the morning to just you two talking into my ear
about how I'm still driving cars. The answer is Lidar by the way it's the big difference.
Cameras. Yeah come to ourself and ride them they're amazing. I put people, I was like
me and a few plants get people in like the early early beta of the Waymos and I was just sending
people in them and they were just losing their mind so absolutely. So the Waymos use Lidars what
you're saying? Yeah it's so much more predictable and the tests are doing camera models we still
achieve one day but it's not good enough now. Yeah and I wonder like I still have this open
question with why they are so restrictive like why they have the thing turned on so aggressively
to make sure you're paying attention like Waymo if they've had driverless. Are you the answer to
that by the way the levels of self-driving are not just a comment on the tech they're a comment on
the indemnity. Okay so when you hit level 4 you're actually telling the authorities that you take
responsibility for the crashes as the manufacturer. Oh interesting. And the only person who's got
the only people for good enough tech that have done that are obviously Waymo but Mercedes is the
only ones that have level 4. If Mercedes like auto driving shit if that crashes you they're
happy to be on the hook for it and you know what Tesla's like. Interesting. If they say. Oh yeah
so yeah well they ever. Correct they were like if they say it's safe and say you're allowed
to take your hands off and smash like yawn. You've said you're not going without saying your level 4
and then you're in trouble so that's why that works. Well what other questions can you answer
for us that we've raised over the years. This is awesome. Now I kind of want to talk about unify
because I use unify stuff and I generally like it. I love it. I've been a bit too ridiculous with
it and like I'll send you a picture I built like a whole server I can got everything in it. I love
it. Yeah yeah no it's the best talking about it. He loves going the fiber terminates right in
that closet. Unify have nailed prosumer. They've crushed prosumer. It's just like yeah exactly.
It's perfect. They run Mongo on it though so and not everyone's perfect. Oh really. Yeah it runs
locally on like on the server. Yeah I mean I mean sort of the 2010s era is pretty weird for tech
honestly. That's what I entered. That's what everyone had that Mongo DB shirt that brown one with the
leaf on it. That was like all over New York everyone had that. That was my first intro to like tech.
I found a Mongo DB mugging up in the GitHub kitchen just threw it in the trash immediately.
I couldn't even look at that swag. They drove me so fucking insane. It drove me crazy.
I think like the very early days of my startup stat news because it was like 10 years ago.
I think we built on the mean stack just like right after the prototype we did like mean
stack and then we're like nevermind. Nevermind. Like one iteration of it was Mongo.
Learn the mern stack. Yeah. That's all I hear is the mern. It's terrible.
Hey they fixed it now. Mongo is good now. Yeah it is. They started writing the data to disk
and everything went better from that. Yeah it is. It is so much critical.
Are you in SF? Yes and you know like the painted ladies the kind of famous view the Apple TV
view. I'm like a block behind that basically. Yeah it's pretty nice. Very simple. Hayes Valley
you see people talk about cerebral valley on Twitter or whatever because it's now there.
Yeah the reason I ask is like the I that you guys talk about the unify routers.
I have lived in New York where no one has a place big enough to justify that at all.
And then you get one router and you have like 100% coverage in like every corner of your space.
And then now I'm in a place that is right on the cusp like my I do have like one of those is
generic like Google Home cluster the mesh yeah the mesh things and it's good but if I go into
my hammock which is in the back corner of my backyard it starts to not be so good and I'm like
do I need to go up one level now. Yeah it's really not funny. Yeah when you can't get
Wi-Fi in your hammock that you can use your round it's it's basically what's a point. Someone
apparently there if you the no brainer like it just fucking works is the net get hero stuff is
apparently just yeah yeah it just does really good like buy that one for your parents you know like
pretty pretty. Yeah my friend just got that and it works pretty well. So what is like what is this
the deal of unify. I see a bunch of people I saw like Nikita Beer just did a bunch of upgrades and
I think that's what he went with too. Why is everyone so into it. They are not quite like a
maraki or Zisco who are doing the really big stuff but they're kind of moving there actually
and they started off just by having really good access points a really good controller.
And just some like simple stuff and they've just kept and the kind of the platform is essentially
a very good controller operating system and then just it's really nice it's very like I constantly
am surprised by how nice it is. Exactly and so then you then they use that platform to
incrementally add even better things so now they do all my cameras for the outside of the house.
Same because it's Po and they also and they've also mega embraced PoE they now do office lighting
that's what PoE controlled. Oh that's crazy. So like I've got PoE controlled cameras I've got
doorbell everything just goes PoE and you can just rip it down you can do all this kind of stuff and
then good outdoor like access points indoor plug based ones it's just like every accessory every
type of camera every type of thing is you can run it in a mode where you don't change anything and
it gets to about plug and play if you're like don't want to fuck around but if you really want to do
traffic shaping and like all of the complex stuff you can do that too. Yeah it's one of my favorite
things to do is like well two things one I actually read when they send emails I like open them because
it's like some new device and I want to read about it but two like it's like a weekend past time for
me is to like open up the controller and just play around with like what can we do on the network
that would be fun like there's the stupid game that my kids school hasn't played they just get so
addicted to it and so we can shape when they can use it when they can't I just love playing around
with it and the software is so good it's amazing you can bridge stuff I've got a different other
house and now I'm using their multi-site capabilities because I put you in a file oh damn so I can
yeah VPN and do everything it's like very cool you can and how they do a consolidated camera view
where I can get both houses in one they've done a full like multi-camera dashboard some whatever
that shit yeah so Dax can't get Wi-Fi in his hammock but you've got the same network in two
different locations to your house my hammock 100 miles away has great Wi-Fi actually yeah
yeah they just do that shit it's really fun really good just pros and I think there's some
example people I think that's why it's actually yeah the hardware is good too like the design all
of it is done really well I didn't know there was example that makes sense though I actually found
out that manga was on the box because I had one time where it actually like shipped the bed and
I was running the older we probably versions I have all the controllers now and manga have done
something that was all I could tell interesting but yeah like other than that if you just buy
the hardware which I do do know how it's really good so there you go Dax you've got an upgrade
path do it one of us one of us one of us come on join me so the power of either that thing is
super cool because I feel like finally there's like some amount of synergization happening where
you like I'm kind of rely on just one thing that's at my house is 100 years old so yeah mine is
too yeah the wiring situation yeah like victorian they're built like crap like wood is a big
bad building material Sam did you like have it retroactively wired a lot of it not into some
places but most of it it's annoying like I didn't do enough planning I could have got it all done
if you don't know yeah I wish I had way more yeah exactly and I built my home like in the last
few years and I wish I would have thought about the camera situation thought about like there's a
lot of things I just didn't pre-plan enough yeah you just do 10 gig this is normal it's annoying
that normal houses don't come with risers and cable tracks it's really annoying
yeah my experience is uh so I swapped out one of my switches in this office with the like a
because like a smart one and I opened it and there's just two wires going into the switch there's no
ground there's no like I think modern there's like four wires coming out of it for all the
different things so it's literally like if you touch if something like gets a loose and touches
the wrong thing it's electricating me and the whole house is that way yeah but I will say
my house is built pretty well like it's it's been through several hurricanes like uh and it's like
for how old it is it's in pretty good condition but uh the modern houses that are built around here
are not built quite well so yeah it's very surprising I was talking to one of my closest
friends who's German and he was like I called the plumber he was like did you ever call plumbers
when you lived in England and I was like no I never have and I've called like turned right here I swear
they know that they I swear there's some collusion going on they just build some of this terribly
so that you were quite rely on people constant alternate theory maybe the food here results in
more wear and tear on the plumbing yeah yeah there's no connection food in England
my my one of my favorite tweets is it's a it's the biggest shame is that they don't have
toto toilets and I was saying you know it's the biggest shame is they don't have
Mexican food in Japan why own a Ferrari if you're not going to take it to the racetrack
yeah and you live in you know southern California it's like er yeah yeah it's a
it's a thing Adam I'm going to change your life if you don't know about the thing I'm about to
tell you about and I've used them everywhere you can buy like 12-fold 18-fold power adapters
that take a PoE input have you seen these and they know they take and they output another ethernet
connection and a power so you can take any of your ethernet powered like small kind of
I don't know like Phillips Hue or whatever yeah PoE that shit and reboot it from anywhere oh that's
so cool Dax is on the unified website right now buy it
really good so I because I bought I can ask I bought a non-unified doorbell and I can just like
reboot it from here it's really cool that's so cool so speaking of uh of food and Mexican food
Adam have you seen all the pictures I've been posting oh yeah the meat you do post a lot of
pictures of meat I've noticed yes yeah I forgot to tag you I usually tag you whenever I post a
picture of meat but I forgot the last couple of days so I'm I'm um yeah one of my first messages
the Sam ever was it because Sam you cook a lot of meat like you post a lot of pictures of yeah
yeah I do I'm trying to cook less meat now but I do cook a lot of food yeah basically yeah so Sam
used to post a bunch of pictures of like these crazy steaks he'd make and I asked him about his
searing technique because I think he you use a torch right it highly depends I've tried everywhere
I've got one that I like the most but I have I do have a torch to use it yeah yeah nice yeah so
so what I've been doing for this week I basically I'm trying to eat like just meat for a week to
see how I feel yeah I saw that to offend Adam as much as possible just a counterbalance
Adam's feeding this and then all that so I went I bought like a whole tenderloin and I um cut it up
vacuum sealed it I could drop his train to the sous vide which is so convenient like after this
I'm gonna go just drop it in and then it just what is sous vide I saw that usually I'm very
surprised that you don't have one Adam I believe I believe sous vide is French for under vacuum
and what it means is you like vacuum pack food you have a water bath and then you have the sous
vide circulator that keeps that water bath very consistently precise temperature it can be like
half a degree precision yeah wow professional ovens are extremely expensive because the airflow
in a regular even if you buy like a fancy oven in a home yeah the airflow sucks like you people
test this by like lay bread out on trays and just cook it for the middle will be like black the
sides won't be yeah so like in professional kitchens they use steam ovens those those ovens
actually dissipate steam I did buy a steam oven yeah it was quite bad so I said I had one that was
like a gag and all steam oven that we loved in our last house and we didn't do it in this one
and we miss it it was amazing because that is not efficient for transferring heat right like
in so the sous vide takes out to a whole other extreme which is you are just submerged in the
same temperature water but it had a lot of benefits which is it's kind of impossible to overcook
something you could definitely throw it to a mush right like you can just break the fibers down too
much it becomes yeah but I've been there for a long time though it's like if it's done an hour
and you wait like four hours yeah then it'll start to mess up yeah yeah but it's kind of like you
just can't really fuck it up and you just kind of it's impossible yeah it's it's great it's it's
like a crock pot size thing that you have tax like what is the no so the actual device is just
this like cylinder and you can clip it onto anything that can contain water so I use just use like a
big metal pot okay and like I'm the reason I'm surprised they're not more popular is
but we have a really crazy one but you can just get a pretty good one for like 70 bucks
and it guarantees like just way better quality that you can probably like you can achieve it if
you're like very good at you know cooking a steak on on a pan but this like guarantees that you get
like professional chef level quality automatically every single time that you just can't mess it up
and there's so many things you can make with it like it's not just for me like people people
make all kinds of stuff up with it and yeah it's one of those things where it's like that weird
sciencey part of food where they like just went at the engineering science angle on it and they just
and they actually it was like a crazy achievement like it does work perfectly and there's like almost
no trade-offs restaurants use it to like professional restaurants often suedeed a lot of the food that
you eat is because it's so easy and consistent yeah and it also solves a timing problem you can
leave a lot of basically finish food for a long period of time warm yeah and just like take it
interesting that whenever you need it yeah so you also have to have like a way to vacuum seal stuff
you don't have to vacuum seal that that definitely like makes it better but I only got a vacuum sealer
this past week and I've had this to be for like three years oh okay yeah so you can just put it in
a bag and like there's like a method to get most there rather than you you drop it in I am a sucker
for kitchen contraptions like kitchen stores are one of my favorite places it's so I will admit
toning three subedes it's the worst one I have on number two you know again this is a space thing
so like my parents house which is like a very suburban house they just have infinite space for
every single kitchen gadget and I feel like it's like all my friends when you go their parents house
they just have like everything like every little thing that they'll use like once a year they just
have it whereas for me it's like a big you know every like committing to this or not like you
know vacuum sealer I'm committing to it we're getting it but I can't just get every little thing
because my space is limited single use kitchen items are the worst thing ever though like someone
gifted us like an avocado slicer and I okay okay it's funny because that is the one single use
kitchen item thing that I have and I actually love it because how does it work what does it do
that special it's so stupid it's totally unnecessary I just cut avocados in half and then I like get
the pit out yeah exactly it's all it's done my wife like my wife wanted him to get she was like
we got an avocado slicer I was like it's called a knife and just put it in the pile
we just donated it just like that's not saying it there has to be like a giant group of people
that are churning out these kitchen innovations though because there's so many news that every
time you go to the kitchen store they've come up with some new thing I've never met somebody that
like designs kitchen appliances you guys know like all shark tank products if you go watch
pictures on shark tank like 70% of it is just plastic shaped into like a shape that no one's done
before yeah just that over and over and over and yeah people keep coming up with new stuff and that
pass is gonna end up in your balls because like you're just doing this over time yeah I keep seeing
microplastics like every article every time I open my phone I see an article about microplaques
and me because I clicked on one and now like they just keep coming up but it's like is this
is this a new phenomenon or is it's like they're just discovering it I feel like every article is
like microplastics we figured out they're literally everywhere does it mean anything we don't know
at all yeah that's yeah I haven't seen like the conclusive like what have we gleaned from this
I've just seen a lot of it it's like endocrine like disrupting and there's like often they've
now start like I believe like I would have to check but I think they've started to actually
found it you know like when people get plaque built up in their heart and oh yeah we've actually
seen it contributed to that now it's very bad like it's extremely bad well I was just gonna say they
need to come up with like something that goes in and eats all the plastic and then like we use it
in the oceans we use it in our bodies yeah what we do that feels like a ridiculous and impossible
problem it's like I think it's like a crazy microscopic level and it's literally everywhere
already right it's mmm yeah like the solutions that's gonna look like it is a big concern it like
genuinely is my my wife um she's a scientist she does drug development uh and she so she works on
cures and she obviously can read scientific papers and whatever and like this is this is one thing
she's definitely like worried about like ever since we've got a kid everything's glass or silicone
on and it's just yeah mmm toys you can't avoid like we bought all the wood and like Montessori
one of the toys they hate them like they're just they're they're not always as good are they
like yeah the Melissa and Doug and whatever yeah yeah we went to like a Diwali party and all the
kids were playing and they'd all brought their own toys and I just saw his like eyes like up
when he saw like a fire-end toy I literally went to the left where I went to Target and I was like
give up I gave him like a police car and whatever because he'd never had these yeah and he just
because he only had wooden toys and he just lost his mind and like so I just gave up on the plastics
for the toy stuff and obviously Lego and stuff you can't avoid it yeah oh my boys love like yeah
I guess that that is a one place where plastic is good but I feel like in most of the world like
way too much is made of plastic and I feel like it's just like bad vibes I feel like everything
just kind of looks crappier than it would have 50 years ago there's a lot of high-end plastics
now though Porsche have put plastics all over their cars now because you can because if you buy if
you build high-end plastics you can have amazing weight to like weight to strength ratio and flexibility
like they do tons of high-end plastics now they're really very useful so is the like timeline such
that we don't like the jury's not out on what plastic might be doing does because it's not been
around long enough like I feel like plastic's been around a long time but is it just to the
quantities that we see today like do we not know yet the impact on humans over some amount of time
we know it's bad we know it's we know it's very okay and it's also volume it's literally
everywhere like you microwave a takeout container you're blasting micro plastics into your food
you know manufacturing right like they like any any meant fermented foods that put in giant
industrial plastic barrels right like geez other fermented foods another thing to know is a lot of
chemicals in a lot of American products abandoned Europe there's a lot more allowed here than it's
out of place because they've already proven it so we're gonna learn that like our generation in
America is gonna all like diet 55 or something what's what's the what should I be nervous about
what am I worried about right now or just like diseases that we would have other i would say
you're definitely gonna die just worry about enjoying every minute till you have it it's a good
call it turns out cold plunges neutralized plastics entirely nice okay then now this new
data on cold plunges that shows that it does too much aggravation of your nervous system and might
actually no i'm getting killed in every possible way that is why it's extremely annoying to be
married to a scientist because you get no hope you like you find something you're like you text
it turn like this is awesome she's like i read the paper it's complete ball like they like they
don't know like the amount of studies she like the the press do a terrible job with this and
is this twitter account all it does is reply to articles and say in mice because all of them
then use pick up on those of things and it's always the last thing in mice it's always
always improved or cured in months and so it's it's relevant but nowhere near done in terms of
reality i wish i was a mouse because i feel like they we've made mouse mice immortal at this point
if it was solid every possible in mice problem do you know something really weird related to this
at work she has catalogs where she can order diseases and people's uh DNA and people's blood
cells and there's like specific people that there's one woman like donated blood i believe and
or donated some like some cell that has been grown yeah it's a cancer one right i heard about this
yeah and so she can literally say like i would like the blood of a HIV positive Hispanic male and
she can get it mailed like what's so crazy i want to buy the like tissue of from a cancer cell that
was growing in this animal straight through the mouth it's wild so so the one with the woman
this woman's been dead for a long time but they can keep reproducing her cancer cells yep so she
like still exists in this weird way whoa yeah just use for research legacy it's really wild did you say
it was a catalog like a physical like jc penny holiday catalog like a physical book like literally
she's got like a paper copy and go on the website just crazy crazy that's wild i never thought
about that though like if you're a scientist and there's lots of them out there they need access to
the things that they need to do experiments so i guess it makes sense that there'd be what yeah
i gotta know like the public can't get a hold of this i guess you have to have like your science
card or something science card i think if i wouldn't order this i don't know actually i'm an
asker i'll see what i'll see what you know i'll see what we can do okay but it's a funny well like
science is so funny because it's the literal opposite of tech like just in every way all the
pressures and dynamics and they should be just going to work every day because they have a lab
and because we're like this i don't know these exist but like we're the center of biotech in
you know california and so there's office space in like south san francisco that we worked for
laboratories so they can rent an office and lab space oh just like we can work and there's like
hundreds of these things they can just go and buy lab facilities like rent them put even a day
at a time if you need certain equipment it's far and the equipment they get insane it's insane the
partner jersey that i'm from has a bunch of uh pharma companies there i don't really know why maybe
it just proximity to some of the universities and we had this crazy case where this woman who was
this like crazy like high-paid pharmaceutical researcher like snuck in and stole something i
forgot what it was sold some chemical and she poisoned her husband with it and he didn't die
but in the hospital they didn't really believe him that he was like trying to communicate that he
thinks his wife poisoned him but like i don't know it didn't get across and she continued to poison
him in the hospital and then he eventually died what yeah and then they caught her at the end of
all of it but uh yeah they have access to some crazy stuff nice one that's some nerve she must
have really wanted him dead to be a dude in the hospital you might have seen some hiv for you
with your name on it yeah right i did see they've like completely cured hiv now i saw they like
completely rid it on on someone it's pretty crazy i think i got back to incoming and it's also been
like they've got they've got biologics that i think it's a biologic that um that's that's another
interesting science kind of recentish thing is biologics but i think it's a biologic that basically
i think it's prep um if you have any risk of exposure you take in it's you just have no chance of
catching it basically wow it's so wild how far it's come compared to where it was like it was an
immediate death sentence before yes true but cancer but cancer is the cancer is still just the
plague and it's getting worse um it's just so hard you it's a lottery for some people you can be the
healthiest person alive and certain cancers will just get you we like lung cancer is a fascinating one
like i think it i'm sorry to anyone listening thinking my facts are wrong or whatever but i
believe it's some only like 50 to 60 percent of lung cancers are caused by smoking really didn't
really know what the rest was and i we've only started to kind of figure out its cars probably
plus you know just it might just happen anyway any cell division risk scans like this just we're
just really learning about all these environmental factors um but it's not just like it's just not
as obvious there's so many people that have never touched a cigarette in their life can get it like
it's it's uh horrible horrible illness yeah i think i saw someone from some not exactly in our circle
but i did i did come across on twitter like someone randomly developed like stage four
like lung cancer like out of nowhere they they caught they when he by the time he went in it was
like already too late it's like in his thirties i think and our cancer rate's actually increasing
i just sounds like an obvious fact that i should just know they are maybe i don't know if they're
fully increasing but the they are increasing lower down the population tree so like for certain
cancers they just didn't ever bother testing people pre-40 or whatever you just haven't right
being along to develop it um and now they are seeing a whole category of those cancers coming
way way down in younger people which is probably things like the microplastics and things like
that i wonder yeah environmental state that we're in we may cure it one day but we still don't know
enough about it like the country she was explaining to me the other day there's still some division
in belief of whether there's a cancer stem cell or not like whether they can actually like they
don't fully know why people get cancer back and then it could just be very it's like very hard to
find a cell and that's why even some of these treatments like a kind of risky there's a lot of
treatments now that people take for you know like um you injure yourself and they like kind of take
out stem cells you're you're glad i'm injected back in yeah well the real risk to those by the way
because mismodifying a cell cells don't die every drug has a half-life a drug if they can keep
your life at the wrong drug gets you it will just flush out of your system cells can technically
live forever inside your body so if a cell was doing the wrong thing um it could be in real trouble
and so that one of the theories and not fully proven that cancer comes back because of stem cells
i again could be wrong but like i know there's still just real divisions as to why some of these
things happen yeah it's wild that it can those be a single cell and you have so many of them
like it's crazy i mean think about that way it's crazy that like it goes right in most cases you
know it's a lot of number of cell divisions that are happening and most of them go correctly it's
pretty insane but it is why some kids get cancer right because they are just a constant cell division
machine until they've fully got it interesting you're just high rates of interesting yeah
you just risk a copying error or whatever well now i'm depressed i don't know uh we're gonna talk
about anything else what's that you are alive at the right time that if you live healthy you can
probably get quite a long life extension based on the the kind of medicine and drugs that we have
like even despite all of this yeah i mean it's despite cancer rates because cold plunging increases
your cancer rates but by 10x. And then yeah correct they literally say that actually in March so I think
the other thing with mass that the other issue is like a lot of this is on mass population studies
right and us and everyone who's probably listening to this podcast lives significantly better than
99% of the population in terms of pretty much everything um and we have hammocks i mean hammocks
right like first for my controllers you know a 15th century peasant a unified controller and
they would lose they would absolutely lose their mind you know what actually buzzed me out i always
picture like imagine your george washington and you like did this crazy thing where you fought
revolution and then you like started a country and at that point it's like basically nothing
it's like nothing and then you die yeah it sucks that he didn't get to see that it worked out right
it's like yeah it's so wild that he's gotten he had no idea how well it worked out
which is a sad thought i had never considered that founded the greatest country ever and doesn't
even know it huh i just heard a lot of people didn't know it like it wasn't good until like
maybe in the last 100 years so all the people involved just had no idea yeah the the founding
fathers didn't know dinosaurs existed right we've discovered them since wait what yeah like they
didn't know no no they didn't know well like chinese mythology like i didn't all that come
from finding dinosaur bones yeah throughout history there there's been lots of reference
they like some people believe that's like kind of maybe where people thought dragons came from or
whether you know you know that also they've been fairly easy to find in a lot of places you know
well yeah what i heard but i don't remember where i heard this but that like people had
been discovering dinosaur bones for a long time but nobody had put together like what they were
until like the last i don't know 150 years or something like there was no name for a dinosaur
until sometime in recent modern history open a textbook in kentucky and it's the same situation
i think the explanation is the devil put them in the ground to trick everyone yeah yeah i never
thought about the dragon thing like dragons do seem so much like dinosaurs and it makes sense that
the people long long ago that were dreaming up dragons had probably seen dinosaur bones yeah it's
interesting yeah have you guys seen the artist renditions where they try to where they give artists
skulls of things like rhinos and elephants oh yeah artists try to draw what it is and it just comes
out so crazy because the animals look nothing like like you never like an elephant skull looks
hilarious it like looks really funny and weird you never know they were just giant trunk thing coming
out of its head yeah it's up with the bones yeah yeah it's wow they really think trex looked like
stupid animal like i know did you see the newest like you know i was like human planet blue planet
like all that series the david amber ones they did one for dinosaur prehistoric planet
and it's like our latest conception of a of a t-rex and it looks so lame yeah it's like the
latest thing every got these tiny tiny arms and like it's just it's not like aerodynamic or anything
like it wasn't Jurassic Park it's yeah it's not a great no such that yeah i guess if you drew a human
from a skull you wouldn't draw the nose that's true you wouldn't have it right it's like no yeah
it's not easy there's nothing yeah there's nothing there to go off of one of uh one of my colleagues
who i've worked with for a decade now um actually no 11 years now from the github days all the way
through planet scale his wife has my like dream job because i love history she's like an archaeologist
she's very famous in her field she's got loads to it felt like it just really digs up bodies to study
like their bones like the chemical and everything to just discover how they lived and she they can
find out an unbelievable amount of stuff and it's incredible what they can learn and she went to pom
pay and and like dug up one of like the really famous villas there and found loads of stuff and
it's just so interesting it's like amazing what you can learn from these stuff and it's it's phenomenal
when you like read like kind of what we're learning about history just by looking at bones like it
it's it's amazing it's truly amazing yeah it's crazy how they like find these little hints and
they can kind of connect the dots and draw like a pretty big conclusion because they're so little
left you think it'd be hard to know some of this stuff but yeah because if you like stare at it long
enough you can figure it out I mean even with the dinosaur stuff a lot of it is just looking at
animals now and like understanding that okay some of these properties could have existed and
some of these behavior could have existed the other thing was have you seen i don't know how
recent this is but i came across this more recently all the theories about like south america and
like the ancient civilizations that were there so i think we think of um south american history as like
kind of what you imagine in movies and tv's like the Mayans and the Aztecs and whatever and like
that level of society they had they believe that there's now there was maybe a more advanced society
prior to that like on the level of like Rome that collapsed and then everything we know about was
like people living in like a post-apocalyptic type of whoa environment because they found like
like streets like line streets they found like all this stuff that is more advanced than what the
civilizations that we know of how they operated crazy yeah it is it's wild like that like totally
changes your perception of like what the world was like there's an amazing fact that Oxford University
started teaching lessons before the Aztec Empire started like the Aztec Empire has been
and gone it was like 10.08 they started teaching at Oxford it's insane it's wild and the another
thing i always find fascinating is the Romans were obsessed with the Egyptians like we are
the Romans because they were 2000 years apart they look back at that and be like
oh they just civilized they were fascinated and obviously for us it's kind of wild so now i can't
stop thinking about what like a thousand years from now they're gonna think we did we like have our
whatever's left of like our Sony cameras and our Elgato key lights at our desks like they're gonna
run NPM once and just be like forget it put it all back it's like the oh i guess you're a
github that github uh what was that thing you guys did the code the code thing the code yeah yeah what
was that i don't really i never really learned to it they took a snapshot of the all of the open
swords repositories that met a certain criteria and then spooled it onto this tape that can last
like a thousand years and buried it in a like a mine type vault near the seed vault in in the
arctic seed vault yeah yeah it was very you know obviously i think it was like a very cool
interesting fun thing to do um as like humans but now there's like old versions of bundler sounds
from tapes well i i feel like when they because i like like a lot of code got in there like i i
like i have that badge in github and i'm like i don't think i had anything public that i really
wanted until that's all the time at that point i think i was good enough at that point like maybe
now i'd be a little more okay with it but i guess it's there forever yeah i don't know people will
look back because like what's different is we don't have a hundred percent clarity on information
and that's like a lot of the mystery of it like i always think about how my kids will have
crazy detailed documentation of what i look like at every single point of my life pretty much and
like what my life was like and records of my conversations and all of it whereas i know like
basically nothing about about my parents and and going backwards so yeah it definitely changes
things a bunch well we'll know about us that they'll know about ourselves as well because we take
pictures of them with our iPhones all the time yeah yeah like within this first month i was probably
more pictures taken of our kid than ever was taken of me as a child yeah exactly i feel like sam you
do database stuff i feel like you're gonna have an informed uh answer to this question i've never
thought about this before but like we talk about the doomsday clock and like the chances of a
civilization is destroying itself is there like some chance that like all the data that exists
out there right now just gets wiped out for some reason at some point in history like is there a
similar risk where we're all fine but we lose like all of this it would not be like a i don't have
to be like a massive electromagnetic pulse that's what i was thinking i guess yeah like i know of
those but i don't know if there's other risks that i just don't know about depends depends how many
availability zones you're running in yeah right yeah yeah i guess it just seems crazy to think like
500 years from now that there's not some chance that all this data has gone somewhere um disappeared
i mean i think that people have already lost a load of data from archiving that they wish they
had back in the age of ai right like people just used to like a lot of people like you know we
sometimes get customers that we'll talk to and then they're trade off for them like if they're not
very large the trade off for them is like hmm can't maybe we'll make a product decision to delete
some data maybe um to like stave off having to go scale but we have a big emphasis on like consumer
products basically because consumer experiences are ruined without data like if like Strava can't
archive your best run you know just because it was five years ago you're going to remember that
like consumer experiences you remember a lot more but for some people and because of technical
limitations especially in the kind of data center age um the early data center age you just got
rid of data and i probably lost a load of really cool things because of that a sad thing a really
sad thing is that we've lost great internet sites yeah the the data thing is crazy because i have
this like visceral image i get where sometimes i think about it i'm like i'm hitting the camera
button on my phone i'm taking a picture is getting uploaded to the cloud that's like ending up on
some hard drive it's someone's job it's some team's job just to keep like manufacturing and
installing these hard drives over and over and over and i'm like can this really go on infinitely
like is my data really going to be there forever or at some point does it need to get reclaimed because
like the whole world is constantly uploading a crazy amount of data every single day and
we're able to keep up with it but it feels weird you know i can actually answer this quite well
because i worked at facebook and i can tell you that old data at facebook eventually goes to tape
it goes that far and facebook was like another tier of cold storage that is so cold that if it's
not being accessed the disk literally spins down and when it gets when it gets access it will wake
itself back up so it goes on hyperscript like very large spinning bladders and gets spun down to
store all this stuff the hilarious thing is like the highest load peak and from from kind of like
or october onwards everyone's preparing for new year's eve so that the entire world can send us a
blurry shitty picture a video of a pilot like and but the scale the scale is absolutely insane
um a fact i and i i you know i had two teams i had the traffic the edge the edge like the traffic
team basically that did all of the 12% of the planets internet was mount is is facebook alone
and then the other team i had was the video infrastructure team which is our infrastructure
was what received and everything's custom at facebook like what uh inside what's happened facebook
the video um was it out codec whatever however whatever your format is custom to facebook
they have their own networking um like it's not moving too quick but it's like an own networking
stack that's in every client because you have things like we have like services like cartographer
because when you go on vacation we now need to start serving you stuff more locally to you
but not forever we don't want to move your database so like the app can ask where to go and that's
all done and managed automatically through like apis inside the apps it's all custom but
there is more it is an insane fact there are more servers at facebook that receive process and put
images on blob storage than the entire of azure wow that is really one there's one node class and
it's more machines than at all of azure globally that's insane it's a whole well you said 12%
of internet traffic is facebook mm-hmm wow this is what this is why this is so crazy to me because
your point is yeah most of that stuff is garbage and never gonna be needed like it's never really
gonna be needed again like 99.9% of it is never really gonna be needed again we have to store it all
just in case it is and this feels like is a whole world it's gonna be like a giant hard drive at
one point like this is how i always thought about dead people like how do we not run out of space
to bury people yeah i've always wondered that decompose yeah so then we just we just reuse the
space we just oh well that's like a weird thing right like let's say you buy a funeral plots yeah
like what is it like what's your right on that you're buying it like but then
who's there to defend it if someone claims it you know you always see these like big construction
projects getting delayed because it's very hard to dig deep into the ground in the uk and like
there's a lot of not undead people and so there was a mystery of like i think king which disappeared
they found him on a parking lot like but the other one there like there was like a tube station
being built in london and they accidentally dug into like a grave site of a monastery that'd be
in there for like a thousand years so it was like they had to move respectfully move hundreds of
dead monks somewhere else so they could build this train because you have to just like eventually
you want to be respectful but you kind of got to be like there's other shit to do now guys you're
a long dead like and shift you up it's weird so when i lived in uh when i was in new york my apartment
there so right next to trinity church and if you if you've seen national treasure the finest
international treasure is in trinity church when they go under it into that gritty tunnel
but what's wild is it's literally like next to the world trade center like if you're buried there
your grave is facing like the world trade center and some of those graves are there from like the
1600s like i think as in our hamilton's also buried there whoa and i'm like these people were
buried so long ago and they have this they have no again the same thing they have no idea they have
this like insane insane plot of land like they're buried in this crazy spot i'm like at some place
can't be there forever maybe i was in our hamilton you know he's famous and relevant but it's just
like these random people that have like almost unmarked graves that are that are right next to it and
it's in this wild location you know yep you could just know it over and build a barry's boot camp
it would just be really useful just so much money as well
now i don't understand i have to look into it because i do i do wonder what's like the legal
stuff is when you buy a plot like is it a lease for some out of time
must be right basically all land lease holds technically like aren't we really isn't it
because government can always take it from you yeah yeah the sad thing about history is the
recycling that happened though right because it ain't older civilizations that didn't care about
preserving anything and some still don't right like the you i think the really interesting thing
about the uk is even for like a thousand years we've actually still been interested in our
own history and history like some of the earliest historians were like bead in britain's and so
we've always preserved stuff like the oldest house i have we're talking about old houses the oldest
house i lived in was 550 years old whoa my mom used to live in america yeah she used to convert
houses right she was her job she bought like old houses and she converted them and she converted
chapel as well as i lived in a chapel that was a good reuse of like old stuff but like this this
550-year-old house had up the chimney they were doing they put a flu up yeah i had to put an artificial
one up because the bricks were so old and they were going up and um my stepfather found a
eight by eight secret room inside the chimney stack that was from the reformation where priests
used to go and hide up the chimney to not get uh found by the protestants and so we've we've
served history so fantastically well but the roe like the roe sort of the catholics like destroyed
all of the roman palaces to build um simpius bersilica and stuff like that so we just we've
lost we've lost the majority of the amazing artifacts that we've known existed in history
unfortunately because of that level of recycling we're just now getting better and not destroying
things and appreciating them yeah it's wild because you would think that's so innate but it's not so
in miami uh there's a bunch of art deco stuff here from i don't know why maybe like the
50s or 60s i don't know exactly when it's one is from preserved really well like and it's really
cool but this was not a miami thing miami was planning on just demolishing all of it and building
like new stuff a bunch of people from new york came here and they were like no this is actually
cool and they like fought to put up all this stuff to like preserve the art deco thing so
yeah weirdly like it's you can be blind to that stuff i guess as as obviously as it
as it might seem you have to care why preserving it we still lose our effects we lost one of it
wasn't it one of the seven ones of the world we lost recently what oh really of the ancient world
i think there's these in afghanistan these these giant carved butters they're huge and they're
beautiful the taliban just like to piss everyone off um they just like fired um mortar shells at
them and just just destroyed them i was really sad i had heard this like revolutions and all
of these things like you know people take big digs at the british museum but they probably should
send the stuff back now but it's extremely revisionist because most things like the algan marbles would
be gone and and they were they were bought a like a british explorer went to greece during some sort
of socialist thing and said can i buy those and they were like sure oh good shit just literally
bought them like and you know and then no one knew like like the rosetta stone was like the french
like they stole it but i think proton was just like needing some bread on it there's some ridiculous
stories about this stuff people were using just like crazy things from history that they just found
and yeah like most of it was just like sold and some a lot was a lot was
blended but it existed a because people take care of and look after this stuff yeah the the monument
thing is funny because i recently learned that the french sold the ark to try off to saudi arabia
so which sounds like what does that even mean but that's a point right like it's just free money
you can just sell it to saudi arabia it's still in france it's not gonna move and technically saudi
arabia i'm saying you know you just like got free money i'm sure you can sell to like throw
their people too if you want yeah you can buy insane things you can buy futures on parking
meters in san francisco you can buy just you can just like buy all of that like you give basically three
four five years of forward revenue and then as price is increased you can get you can hear the
differences yeah i think securitizes is great uh yeah that's the thing in new york too i mean
even just parking spaces in new york go for like a million dollars there's like some like private
parking spaces it's uh that's crazy the same story like you can buy yeah that's wow really well
this this thing with all i mean you're from you're from the uk so you have like when you say like
you said you lived in a house is fine or 50 years old like that's impossible here like for us and
like florida is even like it's so new like nothing years over 100 years old like it just was nothing
before then so yeah old for us like doesn't really exist compared to you guys it's very relative
yeah i was trying to think if there's if i've encountered a man-made object that's older than 100
years old probably not i can't think of what it be wait so where you live there's not houses older
than 100 years old i mean 100 around 100 years old i guess i think for me the oldest in america
there's parts of new york there's some streets in new york that are from like the dutch
the original dutch settlement and those are like 1500 something like that i think
maybe 1600 i don't know exactly what but that's probably in america at least i don't know if it gets
older than that that's like well you've got like a dobo kind of houses in where's that new mexico is
it like you've got the kind of more native buildings that here that they are pretty old um but for
yeah for like kind of the modern era of america i don't know how much there would be there may be
some artifacts there's obviously artifacts and stuff that we have here but yeah yeah it's kind of
strange it's it's it's funny how different cultures based on the length of their time i think it
genuinely i think really affect like we're just babies in america we're just little
little baby civilization yeah we're like a kind of growth stage startup of countries now i guess
yeah it's in the bureaucracy comes in mm-hmm i went to europe for the first time a couple months
ago and yeah that was the main thing like i would just we were just we're in lesbian and we just
like everything was just like shockingly shockingly old and it it's all like
oh it works really well it looks looks pretty good i think it was really small i will say that
like for most of the parts of was when we were in all the apartments were like just small and i'm
not like a big person and i'm like this feels kind of cramped like were humans just smaller back then
or like what was what was going on i i love like in this five hundred fifty four like i was you know
a teenager and i was i probably like five eight at that time right like just i would smash my head
off the top of the doors it's amazing to think back at history and think of all these great
epic battles and tales i think it's just like five-foot people running around with shorts
it would just be hilarious to watch now like the battle passion core would just look
i'm so funny to us and i like more people smacking each other it's really amazing
yeah in new york we have them the met and uh they have like this armor yeah detection and you see
like the badass like spartan armor it like it looks like it's made for a child it wouldn't even fit me
at all yeah i'm sure they wouldn't still kick my ass but it's just it just doesn't fit in your brain
and it's weird because it's not like i'm sure Vikings were still big back then i'm sure there
were some people that were large but uh so like when these groups ran to each other it just must have
been hilarious yeah yeah so fun this this tales of big people right like so 1066 there was a Viking
berserker he was like they talked to it biomass if he was seven-foot tall he like stood on a bridge
and like held like 20 people i've killed 20 men before finally someone snuck under the bridge
and got him but like spared him but like there's this tour of these berserkers i also lived in
india and i grew up there um for a period of my life and i love going back i go back every year and
you know you can go to jai pore and go to the fort and they look back at this kind of there's
like Rajasthani kings and and they were huge they were giant they they're like one of the princes
was just massive and they had his sword and it was like you just look at it and you're like i
couldn't pick this up they don't have to like properly like this is like the fact someone wielded
that he was like seven-foot tall it was just unbelievable because they just had these like random
giant people um that's the funny thing about india is because uh there's just like i think
there's like a wide range of genetics i feel like in some ways like i'm from the south so
yeah everyone's like pretty small but like on the north side like uh like pun job like those
people can get huge but we're all the same race yeah but then if you go look at who's in the army
it's like just one one subsection of the country because they're all just just way bigger than the
rest of us yeah a lot of it like cars car the car car system did a lot of that that was true yeah
who's the ones who's the warrior class what's the one just below brandon i just i don't have this
memorized i don't know that will that will be there will be an executive selection like you just
eventually like like societal roles will select for these traits over time you know it works
yeah so it's shifting gears a little bit so planet scale stuff what's going on there
all right this was like we this week has been amazing i'm actually a little tired right now
i was up to working last night 11 the night 4 and 2 again on monday with colleagues like the like
we've just we've unlocked a few things that we are insanely excited like we've had a shift i won't
and tell you now i will tell you both after this we've had a quite a shift and so we're very excited
we've just moved some very large databases onto our cloud platform which was very fun i see you
tweet some of that sometimes the numbers just blow my mind yeah yeah it's it's actually going
back to like scale facebook scale stuff like that is one of my biggest learnings personal growth
learnings is there is zero point talking about like your trade-offs that you've made for scalability
to people that don't give a shit about like they just don't care they don't understand what it means
to scale i get it it's fine they haven't seen it but like once you see that stuff and the size like
people used to complain about us like the the minimum cost of a database right well
the way our architecture looks it's all in service of we actually have some databases that
have 10 000 nodes just in that one cluster right and so we've made all the trade-offs for making
that work and the bottom like i don't care about the like 29 buck one yeah yeah and so
you're going to see a lot more from us in terms of um we've got some incredibly cool
at scale stories and benchmarks and proof points and stuff to show it's just been really fun it's
been really really good to do those things it's interesting like i hadn't thought about
the scale situation from a planet scale perspective like you have to scale with all of your customers
which is interesting like it's not like a vertical situation where you have to worry about this one
company like facebook crazy scale yeah but planet scale like is the it's the cumulative total of
all of your customer scale which is kind of nuts like different types of problems i guess absolutely
and it's very fun though because we know about games launches for major blockbuster games
because yeah because they tell us right um we know like black friday cyber monday is a hilarious
fun at planet scale yeah we have one customer they they they send like the third largest
amount of text messages in america can you guess the top of the first two
twillio's number one who's in the middle just been oh jeez i have no idea uber uber certainly
oh interesting so their biggest like like so much their business is made up between black friday
cyber monday like it's just such a big deal for retail basically and we're now we've got like a
lot of retail customers so for all these kind of retail black like their load graph the first
day before just goes first doesn't check like it's just like a hundred thousand years and then
the Tuesday just goes whoop just drops straight off and so fun we didn't see and he learned about
like customers products and stuff they're doing and it's just real fun it's actually really fun i do
like we've now got some very big consumer apps that run on planet scale so buying a coffee is a
little stressful for me now and then if it doesn't go wrong i'd be straight to what i do if it doesn't
happen i'll go straight to my laptop like there's like there's something like there's some stressful
things about it i i think like we calculated if we did a if we had a full like global outage which
never we've actually never caused a customer a full outage which is incredible if we did a full
global outage we'd take down about 150 billion of market cap instantly if we went down so we take
that so seriously and it's so that's why yeah and everything is done in scale it's just like
so refined to do certain operations that are normally scary like we have to do about a hundred
thousand database failures a week just because we have to roll versions then we have to do whatever
and so normally like a database failover is like a massive thing for people to deal with
just kind of rolls right it just kind of goes through it um yeah it's fun but it's it's no one
you don't you can't just like you don't sh that's not a shiny feature right you can't do a laundry
about well we can roll you know i mean like we can do these yeah and scare it's not that that's
to be invisible yeah yeah and that's like that that's a whole marvel how invisible it is yeah exactly
and and the people that we focus on now the customers we focus on now they have problems that
require that solution and they love it they they pay for you know it just works like they have
they have businesses that are just ripping in growth and it's not stopping you have to fix it
you have the database has to happen right and so it's much nicer to focus on the end of the market
because we also work with customers where we've worked at that company before or like some of our
employees have worked to that company and i've said to people you know i you know i like you know
we've got the guy that i invented long line schema changes he works here would you hire him
obviously why would you build a thing like 60 of his friends have been building with him
and just buy that right like it so it's a very when you work with people that truly
their other choice is doing it themselves they really learn what you're actually doing for them
it's impossible to get to do that for a hobby yes like they just don't it's like how cheap is it
is the only thing they care about or free you know yeah yeah so it brings me a question that i had
so there's obviously those are two ends of the market right like you know crazy scale and the
people that are you know they're looking for them it's effectively free i don't i don't fall into
either end so how do you guys think about like the mid-level people that are never going to have
scale but you know they're not complaining they're paying a couple hundred bucks a month for a
database either is that like they do yeah just wondering how you think about that like which
camp are they lumped more into in your eyes i guess like do you view them more like the indie
hacker types or do you view them no no more like yeah because you're clearly running a business on it
and our intrinsic motivation is to not cause outages for anyone the trust is basically like
care about that so much but the rising tide raises all boats and you benefit from things that have
been built for so many other people and we can like hand that down to you you were at the beginning
of the thing i really obsess about which is the graduation curve from startup to public company
with a petabyte of data in your relational database and we want to unlock those so it feels very
gradual because no database probably has ever done that if your company takes off it is a inevitable
guarantee you reject your database or you will have to significantly the database at github
the database was harder than the get stack and you can't buy an awryly book on scaling get platforms
like if anyone would have been awry you would have been asked when you wrote a one-off distributed
system he works for plant scale as well the guy who built that like this one-off distributed
system that hosts all of the world's code and that was easier than scaling relational databases
every every company runs into this may use year like when you have that middle year and we work
with a lot of companies in that middle year of like we're a real deal now they at that year's
lost because only going back to your customers not being mad at you you've shipped nothing
and so that's a year out of it it's what 10 to 13 years you get limited to build a company
so soon it's 10 percent gone because of database problems i want to eliminate that in the long run
like i like hopefully it feels obvious to you that you use plant scale because it makes you
more productive you're not scared i hope you're not getting a database stack like that's the
like if you i hope you know you can like speed the change into production and it's like gonna
work you know you know like your first thing and again we do stuff under the hood like we
rate limit you if you like try sending high demand traffic during a schema change would turn the
schema change down and do all this sort of stuff to make it stable the idea is you should build
super fast because you're in a lot to do so and you can do schema change you can do whatever you want
in your databases and braking and then we want as you start to take off that become very progressive
and so soon very soon you'll see and all everyone have the ability to shard in the ui that has been
a very hard thing to do um extremely hard the test is so complicated there is hundreds of flags for
single commands to do very complicated things you have to choose what's so that's the long-term
vision of plant scale is we have the tech around youtube 70 000 servers 20 data centers some of the
largest relational databases on earth run in vites um bring that to people in a way that
they're starting on the eventual state but it feels like they're on the hottest new thing
and they will just ride that graduation curve as they go that is the thing that gets me most excited
about um building database companies i've seen and lived through many companies having database
hell yeah yeah i wish i wish there were companies in every category doing that because i do think
there's a whole lot of div platformy things that they don't have that and people just don't even
know that yeah they're kind of like set up for this year of pain that you described yeah for
whatever their web hosting or whatever else so on the other side uh i guess there's always this
assumption that oh plant scale exists therefore there's going to be like a postgres equivalent
and i remember site as being a thing i think they got acquired by azure and then they like just
didn't work out yeah i do have a sense of why there isn't like something on the other side
yeah there's multiple multiple reasons um so it starts off with if there's going to be a plant
scale for postgres it will be built by a planet scale because you just the intangibles the things
we know the experience we have running operations at scale like every single person in the engineering
team has worked at one of the largest websites on earth basically you know like every single one
of us um we have the first in like our vp of info he was the first infrastructure higher at instagram
like we have just been around for a very long time load of us built github like you know we know
this shit one very hard to assail that um two vatests is so mature it is nearly two million
i think always like one million or two million lines of code it's like the oldest go app around
that's still running it was built to serve for one of the second lives website or third lives on the planet
those failovers that failover code being trusted 100% of the time all of that stuff it's very hard to
build that in and then what people hate to hear when i tell them this is postgres is a great database
that's true they don't hate that bit that's it's a great database but in around like in the 90s postgres
and my sequel diverged heavily like the the design goals of early my sequel it's hilarious to look
back at it now was user experience and operability right what's the main thing like you could you
could do um like master multiple replicas in my sequel in the year 2000 like easily you know real
logical like real good replication postgres just ship that right and it's not wrong they're trade
offs for different um but they literally postgres like my sequel is like we're gonna make it easy
to scale and scale was relative to those that era postgres kind of more started as like a correct
like a prod single server like correctness was very key demonstrate the power of sequel and then
they've retrofitted good things at scale and that's going great like they've got some fundamental
issues like every connection makes a process instead of yeah that's a huge one it that's one
that I like don't get how everyone isn't constantly complaining about because like the one time I
tried to use Postgres and we had like a multi-tenant type of or certain we had a single tenant type
of deployment so every single one of our customers got their own container talking to a single
database yeah like the connection management there was just impossible and I'm confused how like
nobody is like there's a couple of maintainers trying to push it through and they just get framed
people don't want to hear the postgres of any faults it's crazy yeah yeah I did see I did see
something with someone was suggesting reworking that whole it's obviously a crazy amount of work
but yeah again just it's just funny because it so reminds you of that time where it's like oh yeah
just if you want to do anything in parallel you submit a new process like yeah yeah that's like
that's approached everything which doesn't make any sense at all anymore it's just so expensive
for the server to do that like yeah I see I see guides with like when you get to 2,000 connections
you need PG bouncer every MySQL node that get help has 70,000 active connections to it
oh yeah they're 4k each and they sit there doing nothing when they're not being used yeah you have
to like load a ton of RAM and you're not actually using any of it it's uh yeah well the pricing side
that always gets really out of whack yeah so MySQL has like in a db which is an exceptionally
before storage engine um MySQL replication is incredibly robust and is used all over plant scale
and is used at other like most companies like very large scale companies rely on MySQL replication
to be their cross data center replication right like you replicate to your MySQLs you rebuild
all the caches on the other side it's like hyper robust and MySQL is extremely operable like no
matter like just no matter what you want to say the reason it powers most of the top 100 internet
websites which it just truly does um is because for a long time it's been robust and at scale that's
all you really choose is our probability and robustness is automation tooling it's predictable it does
all that stuff so we have the test counts on a bunch of that stuff Postgres will get there
eventually and maybe we'll do Postgres one day but like this level of operability has meant that
the largest graph database on earth has actually sharded MySQL the larger one on earth is actually
sharded MySQL it kind of just ends up all boiling down through under the hood you need to just your
data stores just need to be heavily sharded fast and consistent and you just build everything else
on top and so when you boil it down what it's really good at the job to be done MySQL is exceptionally
good at doing that like it's very good yeah i think even dynamo is uh it's on top of MySQL too right
yeah into me yeah i've never understood like enough about the differences in my sequel in
Postgres i feel like such a dummy but i've never understood why app developers people like me who
just build like at this very high level stuff like pages and components and whatever like why do
people have strong preferences there's a lot of people that love Postgres and i don't even know
what they love about it like why they choose it as it was it has a million features Postgres has
so many features like i just don't use any features well i just don't know how you build i think
some people like to do how the database do everything and then other people like to have
the application do everything yep and at scale obviously the application scale is bigger than
the database so it's dumb to do everything in the database uh but yeah it has like an insane
amount of features like what i like and i and i like i started with Postgres when i moved to
MySQL later and initially i was like uh like less features yeah but over time i started like
that more because i'm like there's it's a smaller surface area and i like that smaller surface area
i had to go back to Postgres for something and i was like yeah there's more stuff here but you
know it does like complicate things quite a lot i still feel so dumb but like what features like
what are they we have we have more types they have more some some correct something they're more
correct on my super defaults like ridiculously dumb defaults um in terms of like encodings and
shit like that it's just by default bad they fix that a lot of that stuff now but like it has way
more types they had JSON columns in the early days but again like this is a great and like this
is a great perfect analogous between Postgres and MySQL world so they built JSON columns
um and that they sucked at the beginning of course they did it quite early but the performance was
terrible like and people would just say don't use these things but Facebook looked at that and
said that's good i like JSON columns that's a good idea so you built them in too much it took
them a year to build it in MySQL or whatever and put it into prod on an obscene amount of MySQL
servers um and it was working robustly and then Postgres got good and that's the difference right
like you can ship something early that isn't going to get used by Facebook or you have the
burden of shipping something that's going to get used by Facebook and you kind of converge maybe
round the same time but one is like a lot more operable still and can do all of these types of
things and so it might be with a lot slower to do a lot of these chase these features of Postgres
implements and they're and they're they're they're architecture is a lot more segmented
and they have a plug plug-ins architecture as well yeah i was gonna say the extensions are a big
big thing yeah which is actually very good right so people do these extensions they have downsides
they don't have like full access to all the APIs that would allow you to like really perform
things or whatever but the other side of that is Amazon has to only has to verify them because
one of the largest ways people were getting hacked on Amazon was because of extensions and
somebody and the other thing is like people used to shit on us for having not having foreign keys
and still not supporting triggers and we never will ever support triggers and no one at scale
uses that foreign keys it's because no one needs these things at scale it just doesn't it does not
matter to have these things so we just don't like bother supporting that stuff because
that scale people don't need it but at not scale there's loads of little features and things you
can do and build so so this idea dax hinted at it of like doing most stuff in your application
and not in your database that's actually good because that's i just felt lazy for not learning
how to do all the stuff in the database but maybe that's just okay and that's even a good
way to build such saying it's a big it depends on that one unfortunately it's very unsatisfying
it's all trade-offs but i fully believe you just shouldn't do dumb things inside your database and
people do really dumb things inside the database yeah and people also don't understand that certain
types of data can be stored in much more efficient ways on other specialized databases and so
it's a yeah it's a big like search isn't very good in the in my sequel not right now anyway and
so you might have to like archive your data like replicate it over to search to get better
search and stuff like that sure but for a small amount of data on a simple website the search is
like just enough and it just depends but people we do when people move to us and they have to move
to a shaded architecture that's when they do have to do a bit of app changing and a little
changing around but when you're going to scale everything sucks like there's just no like at any
scale it's all bespoke you know there's just you're working on it there's a five-person team at
Facebook that are the world's experts on TCP and they work on network level so so many rewrote all
of the network drivers to get performed like just everything just whack a mowling cost efficiency
speed performance uptime and everything sucks and everything breaks yeah i read this book called
the art of postgres sequel and what was interesting about it is it went to the extreme of being like
here's like what code you'd normally write but it turns out you can just do that like directly in
postgres and it goes like that crazy extreme it was definitely interesting but i feel like it
like totally messed up my perspective for like a year till i shook it off because i started feeling
bad anytime i like was pulling out a little bit more data than i technically needed because i could
have like massaged it in a certain way in a database but i think it's like recover from reading that
book to get to a good place but yeah like there are people that argue like any kind of like reshaping
your data because like it's in one format and you need it in a different format to serve from your
API they say like technically your postgres database can do that if you write your right queries to
reshape it the way you want and then you just pipe it through your application the downside is
that work of transformation is not like your data doesn't have to do that work your application
can do it and your application like scales easier than your database so you know like maybe you
shouldn't be doing it there it's it's lots of in that pattern yeah stored procedures are a mistake
no no one should be putting that amount of logic um yeah we've we've spoken to people coming from
other databases sort of written giant and had thousands of stored procedures so they've got a whole second
code base inside their database and it's bad it just doesn't work it doesn't scale um the whole
like though if you don't understand that stored procedure you could like it makes it really hard
because you have to understand the upper level stack like the code uh the language of the upper
level stack then how a store procedures work and the edge cases that could perform just to get back
silly it's just it's just bad it's just shouldn't be done yeah i think what people forget about code
is everyone's so practiced with it like we're practiced at collaborating on it we're practiced
at like like using it with git and like looking at the history and pull requests and workflows and
all that stuff like goes away when you try to eject out of out of code yeah i did come across but when
i was consulting i did come across a team that did everything through store preach procedures like
they're all their business logic everything was in there now obviously like it wasn't great but
it was also one of those things where they've been doing it that way for super long and they like
kind of gotten decent and doing stuff that way yeah it definitely isn't for me now i think i
recommend it for anyone but like i can see how you can maybe like get good at like almost anything
if you do it for long enough yeah some people do some really hard like people talk about monoliths
most people's real monolith is their database but a lot of people have more than one application
talking to their database and that's again where maybe it's better to have some stuff in the database
but probably don't do that so consistency yeah probably shouldn't do that well we're at like an
hour and a half this was fun yeah it was good it's really fun that i won't listen to because i hate
my own voice so it's pretty weird if i do wake up before i am in the morning my own voice yeah i know
if it's even first next episode you guys hear yourself it is weird yeah i used to i think i used to
hate the way my i think everyone hates the way their voice sounds i've gotten used to because i like
hear it by accident so much now um but it is weird when i like sometimes like i'll hear like my like
it was listening to like me and Adam's voice and i'm like this is it's like kind of a weird experience
yeah yeah if i do if i do ever do a like like formal this is like purely only like a tech podcast
that just want you to talk about planet scale i just send it to a couple people my team and just
please listen to this and jack i didn't say anything stupid that's funny on that note we can send this
to you if you want to take a call to run it by just to stick in my ever expanding bag of data that i
want people to discover discover oh there you go yeah i was just gonna say i have to figure out
my unified controller something is wrong my whole house doesn't have the internet i was gone for a
little bit and i restarted mine well things are good what a coincidence not a good not a good
commercial for you know that's great that's what if you say nice things about competing level
immediately let you down yeah they will exactly okay exactly yeah it was funny when you got on
your like if you don't hate computers you haven't worked in it long enough uh my dad's an engineer
and it's funny because if you see him operate in his like day-to-day life you would never think
he knows anything about tech because at this point he just hates everything and doesn't want to
learn anything so like he's always like does not use a tv doesn't know how to like do anything
anything but he's built some wild crazy stuff in his career yeah but you know he's like he's
he's over all of it at this point yeah i've met in so many people that oh i know people who have
retired they closed their laptop and i'm never looking at a fucking computer ever again that's
awesome so it's gone i wanted off into the words it's fantastic yeah okay should we do it we'll take
a little bite do we say goodbye at the end yeah yeah goodbye we're terrible we're terrible at the
ending we don't ever know thanks for coming on sam yeah bye
(gentle music)